.\" $XConsortium: panner.man /main/4 1995/07/17 10:48:10 drk $
...\" @OPENGROUP_COPYRIGHT@
...\" COPYRIGHT NOTICE
...\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
...\" Copyright (c) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 The Open Group
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED (MOTIF).  See the file named COPYRIGHT.MOTIF for
...\" the full copyright text.
...\" 
...\" This software is subject to an open license. It may only be
...\" used on, with or for operating systems which are themselves open
...\" source systems. You must contact The Open Group for a license
...\" allowing distribution and sublicensing of this software on, with,
...\" or for operating systems which are not Open Source programs.
...\" 
...\" See http://www.opengroup.org/openmotif/license for full
...\" details of the license agreement. Any use, reproduction, or
...\" distribution of the program constitutes recipient's acceptance of
...\" this agreement.
...\" 
...\" EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS
...\" PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
...\" KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
...\" WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY
...\" OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
...\" 
...\" EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT
...\" NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT,
...\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
...\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED
...\" AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
...\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
...\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE
...\" EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
...\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
...\" 
...\" 
...\" HISTORY
.TH panner 1X MOTIF "Demonstration programs"
.SH NAME
\fBpanner\fR\(emVirtual screen support demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sS
\fBpanner\fR
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Panner demonstrates how an application can interface to Mwm's virtual
screen support protocol.  The protocol allows other application to pan
the desktop Mwm is running on.  With Panner, you can see a miniature
version of your desktop and interactively pan the display.
Panner also allows you to connect to other displays and pan (see) them as well.
.\" Please use this feature with discretion; it can be most anoying to
.\" others >:-).  Also note that Panner will only work with Mwm 2.0.
.PP
Panner starts up displaying notebook widget with one page.  Each page
in the notebook represents a display screen.  As you add other
displays to Panner, they appear as new pages in the notebook.  In the
notebook page, you should see several colored rectangles. Each
rectangle represents a window on the display.  The is also a dashed
rectangle which represents the display screen.  You can grab hold of
this rectangle using Button1 and interactively move it about the page
causing the display to pan.  If you wish to quickly 'hop' to another
location on the desktop, press Button1 on the destination and the
screen will be centered around that point.
.PP
If your using Motif-2.5.2 (a non-virtual panner) added features are:
Button3 can drag individual windows,
colors are more widely available,
aspect ratio is an option.
panner has desktop edge scrolling which can be turned on or off.
edge scrolling will not be smooth but does have jump options.
Mwm can pan with keys, without panner open.
Panning other (non-current) desktops is not supported and blocked.
See mwmrc manpage for added Mwm settings for ~/.mwmrc and ~/.Xdefaults
See NOTES.
.SH COMMANDLIINE OPTIONS
--screen-width=100,
Aspect ratio of panner to desktop.
(the size of icons that represet windows can be made larger or smaller)
.TP
--color-fail,
Prevent color fallback behavior.
.TP
--x-only,
Do not use UTM calling mwm for sending pan notify to Mwm.
(note utm is used elsewhere on or off)
.TP
--help,
Show options briefly.
.TP
--version,
Show version.
.TP
Also the standard Xt options (ie, -display, -geometry, ...)
.SH MENU OPTIONS
These options can be set by menu.
.TP
--edge-speed=48.0,
If edge panning, how far to jump (pixels).
.TP
--pan-mult=2.0,
How often to ignore new mouse position updates.  This gives a chance to
start moving the mouse before Xme piles up a long trail of "mouse moved"
messages has piled up (a sluggish start).
.TP
--edge-mult=1.0,
Change how far panner pans per mouse travel when dragging (1-n).
May need to set for x-only or just as preference.
.TP
--edge-slide=1.0,
If edge panning on, the number of frames to animate
(very situational if this is useful).
It may not work for x-only.
.TP
--edge-freq=100.0,
If edge panning, how often to query the pointer in miliseconds.
.TP
--edge-update=10.0,
If edge panning, how often to update panner view (measured in pan counts).
.TP
--b3-upd-freq=10.0,
If dragging window using button3, how often to update view (pan counts).
.SH NOTES
If your using Motif-2.5.2

A word of advice make sure to panner is in top mwmrc menu so if in a remote
area and you close panner you can re-open it. Restart mwm should be in menu
too.

Panner always "pins" both panner and iconbox: this way you cannot
move where you can't see panner, and if panner is iconized:
the iconbox is still in view so can get panner back; if you try hard you could
separate the iconbox from panner and get stuck (enforced lightly, not fully).

If somehow panning is lost and or windows are lost no need to restart X:
restart mwm, mwm upon managing mwm will place all windows in viewing area.

A Non-Virtual panner moves windows (very compatible), some off-screen.
Insure .mwmrc or .Xdefaults do not prevent off-screen placement
(do not use "DontMoveOff" would render panner somewhat useless).

X's virtual screen support is not effected and works as expected along
with panning.

Some windows may not move if posted in a way to deter window management,
which is intentional.

Motif Virtual Screen Protocol, which panner doesn't use strictly,
was deleted by the OpenGroup before public release 2.1, see notes far below.

If you have idea: I want the icon from remote to drag on this desktop?
No not supported per say (X apps allocate resources on server, there
is no server-server sharing of).  Just launch that app again from
remote host using "app -display" on commandline and it's on your desktop!  Or
more annoyingly, you can use Xnest to show a remote desktop in a window or
have mwm connect to a new blank desktop on another server (annoying because
you must switch between desktops which, using X11, isn't at all necessary).
.SH OTHER
.PP
The Display item in the menu bar contains the following items:
.PP
\fBUpdate\fR            This will refresh the notebook page and
.br
                redraw each miniature window.
.PP
\fBNew Display\fR       This will prompt you for the name of a new
.br
                Display connection name.
.\" .PP
.\" If your using Motif-2.5.2, ignore all below
.\" .PP
.\" In Mwm's Virtual Screen Protocol, it is possible to 'pin' windows so
.\" that they are not effected by the panning.  This can be done by using
.\" the following Mwm resources:
.\" .PP
.\" \fBclientPinned\fR      Tells Mwm to ignore a particular
.\" .br
.\"                 client's window(s) when panning windows.
.\" .PP
.\" \fBiconPinned\fR        Tells Mwm to ignore a particular
.\" .br
.\"                 client's icon(s) when panning windows.
.\" .PP
.\" Since you do not want to have Panner move while you are panning,
.\" you must tell Mwm to pin the panner window using the following
.\" line in your \fB.Xdefaults\fR file:
.\" .PP
.\"         \fBMwm*Panner*ClientPinned:    True\fR
.\" .PP
.\" To find out more about Mwm's Virtual Screen Protocol, see the
.\" \*VOSF/Motif Programmer's Reference, Revision 2.0\fR or the associated
.\" \*VOSF/Motif User's Guide, Revision 2.0\fR.
.\" .PP
.\" If you wish to interactively pin and unpin windows, there is a new,
.\" but unsupported function in Mwm call \fBf.toggle_pin_state\fR.  This function
.\" can be added to a window's menu and allows you to pin and unpin
.\" windows.
.\" .PP
.\" There are five associated resources. These resources modify the label
.\" used in the window menu to show the state of the window.  The default
.\" for this label is to display the string "make pinned" when the
.\" associated window is not pinned, and "make unpinned" when it is
.\" pinned.  You can specify a new set of labels or pixmaps using the
.\" following resources:
.\" .PP
.\" \fBpinStateLabelType\fR This specifies the label type.
.\" .br
.\"                         \fBXmPIXMAP\fR  Displays a pixmap 
.\" .br
.\"                                         using \fBpinnedPixmap\fR
.\" .br
.\"                                         and unpinnedPixmap.
.\" .PP
.\"                         \fBXmSTRING\fR  Displays text 
.\" .br
.\"                                         using \fBpinnedString\fR
.\" .br
.\"                                         and \fBunpinnedString\fR.
.\" .PP
.\" \fBpinnedString\fR              This specifies the string to display
.\" .br
.\"                         when the \fBpinStateLabelType\fR is 
.\" .br
.\"                         \fBXmSTRING\fR and the associated window
.\" .br
.\"                         is pinned.
.\" .PP
.\" \fBunpinnedString\fR            This specifies the string to display
.\" .br
.\"                         when the \fBpinStateLabelType\fR is
.\" .br
.\"                         \fBXmSTRING\fR and the associated window
.\" .br
.\"                         is unpinned.
.\" .PP
.\" \fBpinnedPixmap\fR              This specifies the pixmap to display
.\" .br
.\"                         when the \fBpinStateLabelType\fR is
.\" .br
.\"                         \fBXmPIXMAP\fR and the associated window
.\" .br
.\"                         is pinned.
.\" .PP
.\" \fBunpinnedPixmap\fR            This specifies the pixmap to display
.\" .br
.\"                         when the \fBpinStateLabelType\fR is
.\" .br
.\"                         \fBXmPIXMAP\fR and the associated window
.\" .br
.\"                         is unpinned.
.\" 
.\" ---------
.\" Enjoy,
.\" Andrew deBlois
.\" 
.PP
If your using Motif-2.5.2 note
Motif Virtual Screen Protocol Revision 2.0 was deleted by the Open Group
from all public releases of Motif.
'toggle_pin_state' was also removed from 2.0 and not made public.
A possibly superflous comment of why: use of an added fake screen.root window would increase factorial
complexity in an already complex and critical part of mwm.
That being said, the "protocol part", though not the exact same as 2.0,
is available in 2.5.2
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
mwmrc(5), mwm(1)
